# specialK

This is **NOT** a verb-noun wrapper for `kubectl`. This is a simple, opinionated alias to `kubectl`.

specialK is designed to add PowerShell object functionality to `kubectl` while maintaining original syntax and output. For any command combinations that are supported, it calls `kubectl` directly and converts the output to PowerShell objects. For any command combinations not supported, it calls `kubectl` directly. This means that if you are familiar with `kubectl`, then you'll be familiar with specialK. If you learn specialK, then you'll be familiar with `kubectl` (and miss the objectification if you switch back to bash).

This is so true-to-source that it even works with `kubectl`'s PowerShell auto-completion (you just need to install it with `Add-specialKAutoCompletion`).

## Table of Contents

- [Installation](#installation)
- [Available Commands](#available-commands)
- [Usage Example](#usage-example)
- [Current Objectized Outputs](#current-objectized-outputs)
- [Building specialK](#building-specialk)
- [ChangeLog](#changelog)

## Installation

This module requires `kubectl` to be downloaded and available in the working directory or in the `PATH` variable. You can find directions in the [kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/).

The module itself is installed just like any other module:

```powershell
Install-Module specialK -Repository PSGallery
```

## Available commands:

The module itself contains 2 commands:

- `k`
- `Add-specialKAutoCompletion`

`k` is an advanced alias for `kubectl`. For supported command combinations, it will convert the output to a PowerShell object. See [Current Objectified outputs](#current-objectized-outputs) for the full list.

`Add-specialKAutoCompletion` is a simple command that calls `kubectl completion powershell` and replaces `kubectl` with `k` to allow for `kubectl` autocompletion in specialK. specialK does not modify any `kubectl` syntax, so vanilla autocompletion works perfectly.

## Usage example

A simple listing of the pods

```powershell
k get pod
```

Output:

```plaintext
NAME                                     READY STATUS  RESTARTS AGE
----                                     ----- ------  -------- ---
blah-db-deployment-584189c448-6cszs      1/1   Running 0        3d13h
blah-monitor-deployment-7f4d5524cf-wj7nr 1/1   Running 0        21h
blah-monitor-deployment-85f748721d-7qxbq 1/1   Running 0        21h
blah-web-deployment-74bbf734b-4sdps      1/1   Running 0        21h
blah-web-deployment-74bbf734b-gs4mt      1/1   Running 0        21h
blah-web-deployment-74bbf734b-nc8kd      1/1   Running 0        21h
blah-web-deployment-74bbf734b-qddmr      1/1   Running 0        21h
```

Notice the PowerShell table headers? That means you can do:

```powershell
k get pods | ?{$_.Name -like 'blah-web*'} | %{kubectl exec $_.Name -- date}
```

This commands also demonstrates a current limitation of specialK. Since PowerShell doesn't pass `--` as a parameter, running `k exec pod-name -- command` will skip the `--`. In the future, this will be fully supported and there is no issue switching back to calling plain `kubectl` for this use case.

You can also:

```powershell
k config get-contexts | ?{$_.name -like '*staging*'} | %{k config use-context $_.name}
```

## Current objectized outputs

These `kubectl` command combinations are currently supported:

- get: pod, deployment, node, service, events, namespace
- top: pod, node
- config: get-contexts, get-clusters, get-users

Do be aware that adding support for additional command combinations is incredibly easy. The formats are all generated at build time using a script, which you can review: [formatUpdater.ps1](repoScripts/formatUpdater.ps1).

## Building specialK

Building specialK requires the InvokeBuild module, which can be installed from the PowerShell Gallery:

```powershell
Install-Module InvokeBuild
```

To build the module, ensure your working directory is the root of the repository and run:

```powershell
Invoke-Build -Task modulebuild
```

Be aware that the formats are generated by default. If you want to skip this step, be sure to use the `-ReuseFormats` switch. However, this requires that you already have a `k.format.ps1xml` file in the `build\specialK` directory in the repository.

```powershell
Invoke-Build -Task modulebuild -ReuseFormats
```

This is something that could be improved, so feel free to submit a PR that improves this process.

## ChangeLog

### 0.4.0

- Added support for `-o wide`
- Added support for `--all-namespaces`

### 0.3.0

- Improved parameter handling
- Improved parsing decision logic
- Added `get events` to objectized output
- Added `get namespace` to objectized output (#5, thanks [@Relinator](https://github.com/Relinator))
- Added support for plural subcommands on the get command (#2, thanks [@Relinator](https://github.com/Relinator))

### 0.2.1

- Fixed issue from the switch to semicolons.

### 0.2

- Now internally uses `;` as the delimiter to generate the objects, improving output for services with multiple ports.

### 0.1.1

- Minor change to build script to preserve the private data on build (Tags, ProjectUri, LicenseUri)

### 0.1.0

Initial release